[THEME MUSIC]
>> Today on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired counterintelligence
agent who served in the Air
Force Office of
Special Investigations.
Welcome, Richard.
>> Thank you, Tim.
>> You served on the infamous
military base Area 51.
Most people, in
living their lives,
they assume the technology
we see on the television
and the mainstream media, this
is state-of-the-art technology.
What other
technologies are there
which we don't see
publicly on television?
>> One of the jobs
I had at Area 51,
Air Force Flight Test Center,
dealt with the protection
of special access programs.
I was assigned, within the Air
Force of Special Investigations
to a special projects
branch, and our job
was to develop security policies
and procedures to protect
sensitive compartmented
information dealing
with reverse engineering
of ET crafts.
So there's a number
of projects that
were occurring during
my time there, probably
even obviously
before I got there,
that dealt with what we've
recovered from crash sites.
We, the United
States government,
had what we called a DART team,
a Downed Aircraft Recovery
Team.
And their job was to go out
and collect debris and bring it
back.
Of course, some of
their jobs dealt
with our aircrafts
that had crashed,
test crafts out of Nellis.
We would develop a
craft, try to fly it.
If it crashed, we
would recover it.
But a lot of that,
their work, dealt
with unexplained or
unidentified aircrafts.
The debris that they
found, the craft itself,
and even the live ETs in that
craft were all brought back
to Area 51 or to Tonopah Air
Base, which was in the Nellis
Test and Training Range to be
analyzed, reverse engineered.
It was our job to
develop policies
to protect those
programs, and that's
one of the things I did there.
And these projects
really involved
some very highly classified,
at least at that time
period, of crafts and trying
to reverse engineer propulsion
systems of ET
crafts, communication
systems on these crafts,
energy devices on these crafts.
People get confused
with is that they
think that a aircraft from some
other planet, we call a UFO,
we identify it as an identified
extraterrestrial craft,
or we call an identified alien
craft, during that time period.
They all were different.
They came from
different civilizations.
They weren't the same.
They weren't built the same.
They didn't have
the same technology.
So that was a very,
very difficult job
for our US and even some
foreign scientists working
with us there to
try to understand
foreign and alien technology.
When you would get a craft
in there that you can't even
find an instrument panel,
which we would consider Earth
aircraft, such as maybe a
Soviet aircraft or a plane,
where they would have an
instrument panel or some way
to steer.
And some of these
alien crafts, they
didn't have any type
of instrument panels.
They didn't have any
type of known steering
mechanisms within the craft.
They didn't have
any type of avionics
that we could understand, which
meant that these crafts were so
advanced, probably
thousands of years,
as I was told by one particular
scientist working there while I
was working on the project.
These crafts have
to be thousands
of years more advanced than
us because we can't figure out
how their pilots can sit in
this chair and fly this craft.
And what they found over time,
and some of the information
came from EBE 1.
EBE 1, before he died, gave
us a lot of information.
Some of the information that
they were using in the '80s
to try to understand reverse
engineering these crafts,
these alien crafts,
was it the Eben craft
that crashed in
Corona, New Mexico?
They did a lot of the
navigation through mind control.
Their thoughts would be
transferred from their brain
into their hands, and
that's why these crafts had,
they call them
handprint instruments.
There was a place
for their hands
to go into the instrument panel,
and they can control the craft
through their mind.
So they figured that some of
these crafts that they had out
there that they had recovered
flew in some type of manner.
But some of these were
so advanced I don't even
think today they can understand
how to fly some of them.
>> Fascinating.
Richard, you're actually
confirming actual crash sites
of nonterrestrial aircrafts.
Is this a rare
happening, or is it
going on much more
frequently than we thought?
>> Well, during the
time frame I was there,
during the time frame I was in
intelligence reading documents,
I never responded
to a crash site.
I wasn't on a DART team.
I got the information after
they had recovered the crafts.
But I learned a
lot of information
after I left intelligence,
because Wendelle Stevens,
Colonel Wendelle Stevens,
retired Air Force,
he was on those DART teams.
And at UFO conventions, he would
relate things to us about them.
The frequency of these
crafts crashing primarily
in the Southwest.
Now switch back to
when I was there.
I knew of crashes,
reading in documents,
that have happened
right around Area 51
or right in either Western
or Southwestern Nevada.
One particular crash site
that occurred in 1968,
near a mine in Western
Nevada, south of a place
called Hawthorne, Nevada, the
miners witnessed this crash.
They didn't know what it was.
They didn't know it was
a UFO or an alien craft.
But they responded,
because they thought
it was just a regular airplane.
They thought they'd go up
and help and see what it was.
When they got there, the craft
was actually broken open,
and there was dead
extraterrestrials
inside, two of them.
But these particular
species, and I
don't know what
these species were,
emitted a toxic fume
from their body,
and this is something that has
been written by Stan Friedman,
too, when they decay.
They were dead, and
so their bodies,
because they were from a
different civilization,
they breathed a
different atmosphere.
So they emitted a strong
amount of methane gas.
So when those miners got
there and two of the miners
went in to try to
help, they immediately
died of an overdose of gas.
Well, obviously, the
other miners left,
and other agencies
got involved in it.
Finally, it was turned
over to the Air Force.
We went out there,
and we recovered it.
Now, Wendelle Stevens tells
this story in deep more details
than I can.
I obviously wasn't there.
But the craft itself, when I
got to Area 51, was still there.
That particular
craft that crashed,
they were still analyzing
it 13 years, 14 years later.
Now I'm not sure where
the bodies of those ETs
are or were.
I wasn't ever briefed
into that, so I
can't explain where they went.
But that craft was still there.
>> The director of Skunk Works
once said there are two types
of UFOs, man-made
UFOs and ET UFOs.
Are we right to
assume that we have
functional UFOs in the fleet of
the United States of America?
>> Well, I can tell you that
there was an incident that
happened in Texas, in 1980.
It's called the
Cash-Landrum case,
where two women and one of
the sons of one of the women
were driving on a road in Texas.
And they encountered this UFO
that was flying above them.
And this UFO appeared to be
in some kind of distress.
And it flew right, real
close to their vehicle.
They were right on
top of their vehicle.
And they later became sick
from radiation sickness.
Now there's a lot
of stories out there
about what that craft was
because these two ladies,
and they're both dead
now, and you can easily--
the viewers can easily
google the Cash-Landrum case
and read all about it.
They were taken to a hospital
because they were sick.
But when this was
happening, they
saw military
helicopters flying all
over the area around this craft.
And what had happened
was the government tried
to reverse engineer a craft.
They got it working, except
for the propulsion system.
They couldn't get the alien
technology propulsion to work,
or they couldn't function it.
So they took that
alien technology off,
the propulsion
system off, and they
placed a fusion
reactor propulsion
system, an experimental
one, on this craft.
They flew it around Nevada for
months and months and months,
and it worked.
So now they were flying it
to a military base in Texas.
And as they were going, they
developed a lot of problems.
And that's the
Cash-Landrum Case.
And that's an example
that we could reverse
engineer some of the
crafts that we found
but not all the operating
systems aboard these crafts,
such as the communication
systems, the energy, whatever
operated the energy, and
then the propulsion system.
And I don't know they have ever
reverse engineered or could
understand all the different
alien propulsion systems
that we had in our
arsenal at Area 51.
>> Fascinating.
The first person ever that
came public and talked
about re-engineering
UFO technology
was actually Bob Lazar,
back in the days.
Rick, you have your
hands on some documents
that show names of people
working at Area 51.
Was Bob Lazar ever on this base?
>> Yes, the documents that were
just recently given to some
of us were entry control
logs for Area 51,
or it was called the Air Force
Flight Test Center, Det 3.
That's the log, but it was for
Area 51, Groom Lake Complex
and Papoose Complex,
or on the document,
it was called S2 Complex.
The documents are
from 1979 to 1990.
There was a lot of them.
But looking through
there, Bob Lazar's names
is in there from March
till June 1st of 1987.
So it verified
that, at some point,
he didn't have a clearance.
He was in an administrative
area without access.
And then later on, it showed
that he did have clearance
through Los Alamos Laboratories,
and he did have clearance.
He was only there for
a short period of time,
according to that document.
>> People are claiming and
there are a lot of rumors
what's going on, on Area
51, on the site itself.
What technology,
what experiments
do you know of are
taking place at Area 51?
>> Well, Area 51 had a highly
classified program that was run
by NSA, and this isn't
classified anymore.
It's been revealed.
And Kirtland Air Force Base
had this and some other bases.
We had a laser base, a
ground-based laser that
could be shot up into the sky.
And now, we knew Soviet
satellites flew over
all our military bases
in space, just like ours
did within the Soviet Union.
We knew, tracking these
Soviet satellites,
we knew when and the time
period that they were
flying over a particular base.
In the old days, when we knew
that there was a satellite,
we knew that R-7--
we call them R-7 satellite,
Russian satellite number 7,
is going to fly over it
during that particular time,
they would hide everything.
It would take a long time to
hide, so they'd have an hour
and prepare.
Now, back in those
days, what we did,
this was just an
experimental, we'd
shoot that laser up into the
lens of the Soviet satellite,
blinding it so as
it was passing over.
And we were able
to direct the beam.
So we'd follow that
Soviet satellite
while it came over
Area 51, virtually
not allowing it to take any
photographs of the base.
Now they had that
at Area 51, and I
believe that was the
first base they used it.
They also used it at
Kirtland Air Force Base,
and I talked about that in
the Paul Bennewitz episode
at one time.
But they also had other
technologies there.
They had a very, very
advanced telescope.
It was run by the Air Force
and the National Reconnaissance
Office, which was, back
then, a secret agency
within the government,
that photographed--
had a unique camera
in it, and this is
in the '80s technology--
photographed objects in space.
We knew where our satellites
were, and now even in the '80s,
we had a lot of
satellites up there,
but we also knew where other
satellites or other objects
were.
And this was a highly
classified program
during that time period.
They would be photographing
and taking pictures or tracking
these UFOs, and we
knew, that at that time,
those UFOs were ET UFOs.
And why did we know?
Because we know
they visited Earth
because we had a hangar full of
crashed UFOs or alien crafts,
and we had recovered
them from 1947 on.
And I wasn't fully
briefed into this,
but we were able to track.
And one of the things
we found, or they found,
was that the UFOs had distinct
flying navigational systems.
They had a track that
they used to come
into the Earth's atmosphere
that was unique for them.
And so when we were monitoring
these objects in space,
over a period of time, we
were able to track them
and realized, my
gosh, we know how
they come into our atmosphere.
Now not all of them came
in in the exact same way,
but they had a unique way,
and I can't explain it,
of navigating through
our atmosphere
to come down to the surface.
And so they were able
to use computers,
even back in those days, to
identify this special tracking
system.
And so they immediately knew
that that particular object,
rather than being
an unknown, we knew
that was an extraterrestrial
craft coming
into Earth's atmosphere.
>> So basically, the United
States government knows when
a UFO is going to
enter US airspace.
>> Yes.
>> Is there any technology
in order to prevent UFOs from
entering the airspace
that you know of?
>> There's number of things
that we tried that I knew about,
and there's a lot of things, I'm
sure that they're doing that I
don't know about
trying to prevent them.
But you have to understand
that ET technology is
thousands of years or even
more, maybe even millions
of years more advanced than us.
And they're all coming
from different planets.
It's not as if
there's just one craft
with different ETs aboard.
They're different technologies.
So we have to develop all
these different methods
to try to track various
different technologies from all
over the universe,
and I don't know
that they've ever done that.
And so if you're
dealing with a craft,
as it was explained
to me once, we
were trying to track a F-117
aircraft with 1940s technology,
and that's an analogy,
loose analogy.
There's no way we could
do it because number one,
the F-117 was a
stealth aircraft.
We had really archaic radar
systems back in the 1940s.
German government,
Germans perfected probably
one of the most advanced
during World War II.
It couldn't have detected
anything more advanced now.
Now here we are, in
the 21st century,
trying to track, or the 20th
century and the 21st century,
trying to track ET crafts that
have come from light years
away, probably, some
of them, we know.
And we're trying to track them.
It would be almost
virtually impossible.
But once they get
into the atmosphere
is to try to defend Earth.
We see them.
We can track them, but
try to defend them,
try to develop some sort
of weapon system to defend,
I don't think we've
done that yet.
>> So publicly, there has
never been reported any case
of hostile behavior from ET
crafts against bases or even
humans, themselves.
Do you know of any cases?
Is there a threat?
>> Yes, there have been cases.
A classic case occurred from a
National Guard plane flying out
of, I believe, Tennessee,
back in the late '40s.
There was an object
spotted on radar.
The plane went up there
to try to identify it,
and the plane was shot down.
Our plane was shot down.
And I think the
consensus is, and there's
other people that have
studied this, Dr. Friedman,
the late Dr.
Friedman and others,
and it was a consensus that
that UFO shot down the Air Force
plane.
And it crashed,
killing the pilot.
Now there's other cases.
There was a case in Vietnam,
during the Vietnam War,
where an F-4 Phantom
jet was taking off
from an airbase in
Central Vietnam,
going to bomb a target.
I don't recall the exact date,
but I believe it was in '68.
And the F-4 is flying up, and
as it got to a certain altitude
to fly to wherever
it was going to bomb,
and there was three F-4s.
But this one particular
pilot sees this bright object
coming right at him.
And he's, of course,
thinking it's
some missile that the Viet
Cong or the North Vietnamese
fired at him.
So he made evasive
maneuvers, but he
couldn't get away from it.
It just shadowed him
every place he went.
The other two pilots
saw what he was doing
but didn't see this object,
and they were, of course,
talking to him on the radio
saying, what are you doing?
He said, this object
is coming right at me.
So eventually, the
pilot, the object
got so close to him
that the pilot went down
to a low altitude and ejected.
And then those two other
pilots saw the F-4 explode.
And then they saw this other
craft, a saucer-shaped craft,
the other two
described, flying away.
Fortunately, the pilot
landed and was rescued.
He didn't die, but
this is in Vietnam.
Well, we knew that the North
Vietnamese and the Viet Cong
didn't have that technology
or no other countries
in Southeast Asia, during the
'60s, had that technology.
So what could that have been?
That was probably a UFO.
Why was it tracking that F-4?
Who knows?
We wouldn't know about that.
That's just two cases of
several that involved planes
that could have
been downed by UFOs.
>> On the contrary, there
might be chances for alliances
between humans and
nonterrestrial lifeforms
and intelligences.
Rick, is the United States
government in cooperation
with ET intelligence?
>> I don't know that
specific answer.
All I know is that, from the
information that EBE provided
to us from 1947 to 1952, when
he was in our care and custody,
he gave us a lot of information
about other ET races,
some of them extremely hostile.
And he warned us about
some races, which
I didn't have access to
all that information,
but he warned us about
two particular races,
and this is in the '50s.
And he told us
that we would have
to develop some type
of weapon system
because if those
particular races of aliens
came here to Earth, we would
have to defend ourselves.
Now, EBE didn't know what
we had at that time period.
He knew we had nuclear
weapons, because he
knew about the explosion in
'45 in the New Mexico desert,
and he knew about Japan, the
two that we exploded in Japan.
He knew that we had these weapon
systems that were enormous.
But he didn't know that whether
what we had then, in the '50s,
would be able to defeat.
So he provided us with some
information and some technology
and obviously, we got
a lot of technology
from the two recovered
crafts, the one we recovered
near Corona and the one up
near Horse Mesa in 1949.
That helped us, I
think, in understanding
advanced technology to
assist us in some maybe
future war with the ETs.
But I was never fully
briefed into that,
so I really don't know.
I know today,
we're experimenting
with hypersonic weapons
systems, kinetic systems,
directed energy weapons, fusion
weapon systems, and these
all are being developed
right as we speak today,
in the 21st century.
And is some of that
alien technology?
Could be.
>> One must assume that
nonterrestrials that are far
more advanced than humans are
might have technology that
serves healing purposes.
Is there only technology that
has ever been re-engineered
from that area and field?
>> I know of limited
information on that subject.
I had access to some things
when I worked for the Institute
for Advanced Studies,
but I'm not a doctor.
And I didn't fully
understand what I read
and what information
I was given.
And so for me to say
something here, on the air,
I think might distort what
the real purpose of what
we got from EBE.
I know that EBE provided us with
something that could possibly
heal, but I can't
really go into details
because, again, I'm
not a medical doctor,
and I can't fully explain it.
>> Fascinating.
Rick, so you confirmed that
there are actual crashed UFOs
and it happened more than once.
What happened to all these
crafts around the globe that
have been collected
and brought to Area 51,
and how many are there?
I know Bob Lazar talked
about several of them.
He has seen, I think,
nine or something.
How much do you know, and
what happened with those?
>> I can only talk
about what we,
the United States
government, has.
I'm sure countries
around the world,
we knew that the Soviet
Union had crashed UFOs,
and they had them at
a particular place
at Kapustin Yar.
They had underground facilities
where they stored them.
We satellite pictures.
We know that for a fact.
I'm not sure about the Chinese.
I'm sure they probably did
and other countries have.
But I can tell you that,
during my time at Area 51,
I knew they had caverns
under the base, old mines
that they dug out that they
stored these crafts in.
I don't know the exact number,
but at one point during a UFO
convention some years
ago, Wendelle Stevens
talked about 60.
Now I don't know if there were
60 just turning his time period
or whether he had access
to information later on.
But only during the
time I was at Area 51,
and I can only speak about
that, there were probably
20 that I could think about
that were stored there,
either in hangars above
ground or in the facilities
underground.
Now there was a vast cavern
of storage underground,
and they were continuously
being constructed or built.
There were a number of projects
going on when I was there
to dig underground tunnels, to
build a road, underground road,
from the Katomen area of
Area 51 down to Papoose Lake
so you wouldn't
have to drive to it.
And I understand, even
today, as I saw on YouTube,
that there is a massive
tunnel system that
runs the 17 miles from
Groom Lake to Papoose.
Now this is on YouTube.
So take it for
what that's worth.
But during my time
there, there was
a lot of construction
going on there,
underground construction.
So to answer your
question, I would
assume that most of
those reverse engineer
or captured crafts were in
an underground facility.
Now, we also had a
facility at Tonopah,
which is another Air Force Base,
80 miles away from Area 51,
within the Nellis Test
and Training Range.
That particular
air base was used
to develop the F-117
stealth aircraft,
and it's being used today
for other things like that.
Now there had four
complexes there
that were underground,
although I've never
been to their facilities.
I just know that
they had them, and I
would guess that if
they needed space
to store a downed ET craft,
they could use something there
at Tonopah, also.
>> Rick, as an agent,
you've been to Germany,
and you actually speak
German, which a lot of people
don't know.
Does the United States
of America help,
assist, or even brief other
countries on the UFO subject?
>> Yes, during my time
period there in intelligence,
we shared some information.
We didn't share all of it.
Again, it was there had to have
been some kind of need to know.
There had to be some
kind of special reason
why we would brief another
intelligence agencies.
Now I wasn't involved in any
kind of diplomatic channels.
So I'm not sure what
the diplomats did.
I'm sure there
were probably cases
where we would share information
through the diplomatic channels
with other countries.
But I know that if
we needed something,
when I was stationed in Germany
as an intelligence officer,
we used German intelligence, the
Bundesnachrichtendienst, which
is the BND, the German
equivalent of the CIA,
for a number of our operations,
because they had access
to things that we couldn't,
especially inside the Soviet
Union.
BND had a good source
network inside.
So if we got some information,
maybe from a satellite,
that there was maybe a
particular UFO recovery
operation going on in Siberia or
some place inside Soviet Union,
we would go to our
contacts within BND,
and we'd sit down with
them and say, listen,
on this date, one of our
satellites spotted this.
Might even show them
the satellite picture.
And we want to know
what's going on there.
And BND would take
it and run with it.
And we didn't always
get what we wanted back,
but a lot of times, they would
come back with the information.
With, yeah, there was some
kind of satellite or something
that crashed.
And they don't know what it
is, and they recovered it.
And now they're taking
it to Kapustin Yar.
And fortunately, we had an
asset there, so we knew.
But BND had access.
So we did that.
We shared.
That's the only time,
and it's the only way
that we did that inside Germany.
Now I'm sure it probably
happened in other locations,
but, again,
compartmentalization.
We used BND, and sometimes
they would use us.
>> Does the BND know that there
are UFOs and they are from
nonterrestrial origin?
>> Well, I briefed one
particular BND officer,
so he would know.
What he did with that
information, I don't know.
>> Rick, fascinating.
So we've talked about
Area 51 containing
different
nonterrestrial aircraft.
So Area 51 cannot be the
only base that has these kind
of craft.
Are there other bases that do
have their hands on this kind
of technology, as well?
>> Yes, Dugway Proving
Grounds, in Utah,
which is sometime
called Area 52.
There's a particular
location in Alaska
that a lot of research and
development is going on.
It's near Fort Wainwright,
an Army base in Alaska.
And probably the
most secretive base
that just recently
has been disclosed
is Johnson Island, which is
one of the American possession
islands, west of Hawaii.
>> The United States of America
has UFOs not from this planet.
Fascinating.
Rick, thank you so much
for being on the show.
>> You're very welcome, Tim.
>> I'm Tim.
Thank you so much for
watching "Cosmic Disclosure."
[THEME MUSIC]